Corrected naming inconsistencies and updated details in EBWOID/PID Ru… (#65)
webuild-consortium/webuild-attestation-rulebooks-catalog: rulebooks/rb-pid/README.md

#  Attestation Rulebook for attestations of type Personal Identification Data (PID)

| Version | Date        | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      |
|---------|-------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|

> |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

this is an error breaking the table layout.

| 0.1.3   | 27 Oct 2025 | Transferred main structure and content from [EUDI repository](https://github.com/eu-digital-identity-wallet/eudi-doc-attestation-rulebooks-catalog/blob/main/rulebooks/pid/pid-rulebook.md) and modified template to closer align to [EUDI template](https://github.com/eu-digital-identity-wallet/eudi-doc-attestation-rulebooks-catalog/blob/main/template/attestation-rulebook-template.md). First specific draft for WEBUILD |

> | 0.9.0   | 2025-12-12  | Feedback of WEBUILD WP 4 Task 2 implemented                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| 0.1.3   | 27 Oct 2025 | Transferred main structure and content from [EUDI repository](https://github.com/eu-digital-identity-wallet/eudi-doc-attestation-rulebooks-catalog/blob/main/rulebooks/pid/pid-rulebook.md) and modified template to closer align to [EUDI template](https://github.com/eu-digital-identity-wallet/eudi-doc-attestation-rulebooks-catalog/blob/main/template/attestation-rulebook-template.md). First specific draft for WE BUILD |
| 0.9.0   | 2025-12-12  | Feedback of WE BUILD WP 4 Task 2 implemented                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      |
```

### Feedback and contact
Main feedback channel: [GitHub issues](https://github.com/webuild-consortium/eudi-wallet-rulebooks-and-schemas/issues)

> Alternative: Contact workpackage 4 in WEBUILD.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Alternative: Contact Work Package 4 in WE BUILD.
```

This document uses the terminology specified in [Annex 1](https://eu-digital-identity-wallet.github.io/eudi-doc-architecture-and-reference-framework/latest/annexes/annex-1/annex-1-definitions/) of the ARF.

### 1.5 Deviations from the ARF 2.8.0 defined PID version 1.5 for WEBUILD

> 1. The attribute and metadata tables of chapter two have been extended with links to the semantic vocabulary of WEBUILD. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### 1.5 Deviations from the ARF 2.8.0 defined PID version 1.5 for WE BUILD
1. The attribute and metadata tables of chapter two have been extended with links to the semantic vocabulary of WE BUILD. 
```

2. The structure of this rulebook follows the EUDI template version 1.1. The ARF PID rulebook is diverging from this version. 

> 3. WEBUILD specifies an explicit tokenlist based status mapping for SD-JWT in line with [Architecture Decision Record for WEBUILD on the topic ](https://github.com/webuild-consortium/wp4-architecture/blob/main/adr/attestation-revocation-mechanism.md)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. WE BUILD specifies an explicit token-list-based status mapping for SD-JWT in line with [Architecture Decision Record for WE BUILD on the topic ](https://github.com/webuild-consortium/wp4-architecture/blob/main/adr/attestation-revocation-mechanism.md)
```

We use "WE BUILD" in the document and in other rulebooks, should be aligned everywhere.

3) Obtain the relevant trust anchor(s):
   - For PID or QEAA, obtain the Provider trust anchor from the applicable LoTE / Trusted List.
   - For PuB-EAA, validate the PuB-EAA Provider certificate chain up to the QTSP trust anchor from the QTSP Trusted List.

>    - For non-qualified EAA cases, obtain the applicable domain trust anchor using the mechanism defined below (WEBUILD profile).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - For non-qualified EAA cases, obtain the applicable domain trust anchor using the mechanism defined below (WE BUILD profile).
```

Verification steps - Wallet Unit authenticates the RP (precondition for PID presentation):
1) Obtain the trust anchor of the Access Certificate Authority from the applicable LoTE.
2) Validate the RP access certificate chain included in the presentation request up to the Access CA trust anchor.
3) Validate revocation/status of certificates in the chain as required by the applicable ecosystem rules and Chapter 6.
4) Proceed to user approval only after successful RP authentication.

WEBUILD specific profile and extensions:
- WEBUILD SHALL support a machine-readable LoTE endpoint (or equivalent distribution mechanism) that contains:
  - trust anchors for PID Providers participating in WEBUILD, and
  - trust anchors for the Access Certificate Authorities used by WEBUILD participants.
- The WEBUILD LoTE SHOULD be structured so that entries can be resolved by `issuing_country` and entity identifier, and SHOULD support inclusion of pointers to authoritative national LoTE / Trusted List sources where available.

> - Wallet Units and RPs in WEBUILD SHALL be able to resolve trust anchors using either:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
WE BUILD specific profile and extensions:
- WE BUILD SHALL support a machine-readable LoTE endpoint (or equivalent distribution mechanism) that contains:
  - trust anchors for PID Providers participating in WE BUILD, and
  - trust anchors for the Access Certificate Authorities used by WE BUILD participants.
- The WE BUILD LoTE SHOULD be structured so that entries can be resolved by `issuing_country` and entity identifier, and SHOULD support inclusion of pointers to authoritative national LoTE / Trusted List sources where available.
- Wallet Units and RPs in WE BUILD SHALL be able to resolve trust anchors using either:
```

  - the `trust_anchor` metadata carried in the PID, or

>   - a pre-configured WEBUILD LoTE entry point based on `issuing_country`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - a pre-configured WE BUILD LoTE entry point based on `issuing_country`.
```

- Example 2 - Wallet Unit authenticates an RP:
  - Wallet Unit retrieves the Access CA trust anchor for `issuing_country = "XX"` from LoTE.
  - RP includes its access certificate and intermediate certificates in the request.
  - Wallet Unit validates the chain up to the Access CA trust anchor before showing the request to the user.

> For usage of trust-list in WEBUILD, please consult the Architecture Blueprint.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For information regarding the use of the trust list in WE BUILD, please consult the Architecture Blueprint
```
